
day 4

Explain event delegation.
What's the difference between host objects and native objects?
Describe event bubbling.
Describe event capturing.
What is an event flow?
What is BOM?
What is the use of stopPropagation method?
What are the properties used to get size of window?
What are the DOM methods available for constraint validation?
How do you perform form validation using javascript?
How do you perform form validation without javascript?
What are the different methods to find HTML elements in DOM?

day 5

Explain the same-origin policy with regards to JavaScript.
What is the difference between document load and DOMContentLoaded events?
What is same-origin policy?
How do you make synchronous HTTP request?
How do you make asynchronous HTTP request?
What are the ways to execute javascript after page load?
What is an HTTP Header?
How can you prevent CORS issue?
When to use async and defer when loading JS files?
Describe how Fetch API makes use of Promises.

day 6

What are "web workers"?
What is HTML5 Web Storage? Explain localStorage and sessionStorage.
What's the difference between the <svg> and <canvas> elements?
What are custom attributes in HTML5?
What are the drawbacks of cookies?
What is purpose of watchPosition() method of geolocation object of HTML5?
How do you manipulate DOM using service worker?
What is a cookie?
How do you delete a cookie?
What is the main difference between localStorage and sessionStorage?
How do you check web storage browser support?

day 7

What is the difference between JavaScript and jQuery?
What is $() in jQuery library?
What are the effects methods used in jQuery?
What is the use of toggle() method in JQuery?
What is the use of html() method in JQuery?
What is the use of css() method in JQuery?
What is the starting point of code execution in jQuery?
What is the difference between find and children methods?
What are the selectors in jQuery? How many types of selectors are there in jQuery?
What is the use of serialize() method in JQuery?
What is the difference between jQuery.get() and jQuery.ajax()?
Explain the difference between the .detach() and .remove() methods in jQuery.
What's the difference between document.ready() and window.onload()?
What's the difference between prop() and attr()?

day 8

How do you rate limit requests to an ExpressJS route?
How do you structure an Express REST API application?
How to get GET (query string) variables in Express.js on Node.js?
How to retrieve POST query parameters?
How to get the full url in Express?
What will you do if an Express route throws Error: request entity too large?
How do you call a "local" function within module.exports from another function in module.exports?
How do you serve static files with Express?
What does body-parser module do with express?
What is the use of parameter next used in Express routes?
How to get remote client address in a route in Express?
What is a middleware? How can you create one in ExpressJS?
How to redirect 404 errors to a page in ExpressJS?
What are res and req parameters in Express route functions?
How to get hostname of current request in node.js Express?
What is process.env.PORT in ExpressJS?

day 9

NoSQL related questions
What are the features of NoSQL?
Explain the difference between NoSQL v/s Relational database?
When should I use a NoSQL database instead of a relational database?
How to do transactions/locking in MongoDB?
Compare MongoDB with Couchbase and CouchbaseDB.
Why is MongoDB not chosen for a 32-bit system?
What are the key features of MongoDB?
What is CRUD?
What is Aggregation in MongoDB?
What is the use of an Index in MongoDB?
Which command is used to create a database in MongoDB?
Which command is used to drop a database in MongoDB?
Which command is used to create a backup of the database?
What is a Collection in MongoDB?
Which method is used to update documents into a collection?
What is the role of profile in MongoDB?
RDBMS related questions
Why a database is called as relational database model?
What are constraints in database?
What is the difference between primary and foreign key?
What is an index represent in relational database model?
What do you understand by database Normalization?
What is the difference between primary key and unique constraints?
What are the differences between DDL, DML and DCL in SQL?
What is the difference between having and where clause?
What is Join?
What is a transaction? What are ACID properties?
List and explain the different types of JOIN clauses supported in ANSI-standard SQL.
Write a SQL query to find the 10th highest employee salary from an Employee table.
How can you select all the even number records from a table? Similarly, all the odd number records?
What is the difference between IN and EXISTS?
How do you copy data from one table to another table ?
How to start a Postgresql server in a Linux system?
Explain the use of aggregate functions in Postgresql?
What is a JOIN? What are the different JOIN operations supported by ANSI SQL?

day 10

ReactJS interview questions
Differentiate between Real DOM and Virtual DOM.
List some of the major advantages of React.
What are the limitations of React?
What is JSX?
Can you explain what is the concept of Virtual DOM?
Why can't browsers use JSX?
How different is React's ES6 syntax when compared to ES5?
How is React different from Angular?
"In React, everything is a component". What does this statement mean?
What is Props?
What is a state in React and how is it used?
Differentiate between states and props.
How can you update the state of a component?
What is arrow function in React? How is it used?
Differentiate between stateful and stateless components.
What are the different phases of React component's lifecycle?
Explain the lifecycle methods of React components in detail.
What are synthetic events in React?
What do you understand by refs in React?
What do you know about controlled and uncontrolled components?
What are Higher Order Components(HOC)?
What are Pure Components?
What is the significance of keys in React?
Why do we need a Router in React?
What happens when you call setState?
What's the difference between an Element and a Component in React?
When would you use a Class Component over a Functional Component?
What are refs in React and why are they important?
In which lifecycle method do you make AJAX requests with a Class component?
What are the most common approaches for styling a React application?

day 11

What are the advantages of using Redux than managing the state locally?
How is Redux different from Flux?
What is the significance of Store in Redux?
Explain the role of Reducer in Redux.
How are Actions defined in Redux?
Can you list down the components of Redux?
What do you understand by "Single source of truth" in the world of Redux?
What are the three principles that Redux follows?
What is the typical flow of data in a React + Redux app?
What is store in redux?
Explain Reducers in Redux?
Explain action's in Redux?
What are Pure Functions?
Can Redux only be used with React?

day 12

Big O Based
Why is O(n!) considered as one of the worst run time complexities for algorithms?
Which runtime does Bubble sort run?
Which runtime does Binary search run? Why?
Array Based
How to find the missing number in given integer array of 1 to 100?
How to find the largest and smallest number in an unsorted integer array?
How to find all pairs of integer array whose sum is equal to a given number?
How to find the duplicate number on a given integer array?
How to sort an integer array in place using QuickSort algorithm?
How to remove duplicates from an array in place?
How to reverse an array in place in Java?
How to find multiple missing numbers in given integer array with duplicates?
String Based
How to Print duplicate characters from String?
How to check if two Strings are anagrams of each other?
How to print first non repeated character from String?
How to reverse a given String using recursion?
How to check if a String contains only digits? Also, can you convert a string with only numbers to its equivalent number data type?
How to count a number of vowels and consonants in a given String?
How to find all permutations of String?
How to check if two String is a rotation of each other?
How to check if given String is Palindrome?
Linked List Based
How to find the middle element of a singly linked list in one pass?
How to reverse a linked list?
How to reverse a singly linked list without recursion?
How to remove duplicate nodes in an unsorted linked list?
How to find the length of a singly linked list?
How to find the 3rd node from the end in a singly linked list?
How do you find the sum of two linked list using Stack?
Tree Based
Can you write a program to implement a binary search tree?
How do you perform Pre-order traversal in a given binary tree?
Write a Program to traverse a given binary tree in Pre-order without recursion.
How to print all nodes of given binary tree using inorder traversal without recursion?
How to implement Post-order traversal algorithm?
How to traverse a binary tree in Post order traversal without recursion?
How to Print all leaves of a binary search tree?
How to count a number of leaf nodes in a given binary tree?
How to perform a binary search in a given array?
How can you find the depth of a graph?